--- 
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Creating an uberjar webapp using jetty and maven
author: Jotschi
author_login: admin
author_email: webmaster@jotschi.de
author_url: http://www.Jotschi.de
excerpt: |
  This post is about creating an uberjar webapp. uberjar webapps are executable jar archives that start a server that serves the webapp with one single command. Everything is contained within a single jar. 
  

wordpress_id: 519
wordpress_url: /?p=519
date: 2011-04-23 17:51:59 +00:00
categories: 
- Uncategorized
tags: 
- uberjar
- maven
- jetty
comments: []

---
This post is about creating an uberjar webapp. uberjar webapps are executable jar archives that start a server that serves the webapp with one single command. Everything is contained within a single jar. 

<a id="more"></a><a id="more-519"></a>

Insipred by <a href="http://open.bekk.no/2011/01/14/embedded-jetty-7-webapp-executable-with-maven/">this blogpost</a> ( <a href="https://github.com/bekkopen/jetty-pkg">Code</a> ) i created a similar example using maven which you can find here: <a href="https://github.com/Jotschi/Uberjar-Dummy-Webapp">Example Sources</a>.

It contains a uberjar webapp that will be served using jetty. The webapp itself just contains a jersey REST resource. So this project also demonstrates how to get started with jersey.

You can import all projects using the m2eclipse plugins ( http://m2eclipse.sonatype.org/installing-m2eclipse.html) 
Note: You will need 'm2eclipse Extras' if you want to deploy the webapp within your eclipse IDE. 

You can package the project using the following command:
{% snippet c %}
mvn clean package
{% endsnippet %}

You can execute the following command to start the uberjar dummy server:
{% snippet c %}
java -jar uberjardummy-server/target/uber-uberjardummy-server-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
{% endsnippet %}
