--- 
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Dual Head on i810 - 945GM - Debian Lenny
author: Jotschi
author_login: Jotschi
author_email: webmaster@jotschi.de
author_url: http://www.jotschi.de
excerpt: |
  I just did a dist upgrade and broke my old xorg.conf dual head configuration. Here is my new one.

wordpress_id: 141
wordpress_url: /?p=141
date: 2008-06-15 16:02:29 +00:00
categories: 
- Technik
tags: 
- X11
- i810
- xorg
- xserver
- lenny
- debian
- 945GM
- dual head
- xorg.conf
comments: []

---
I just did a dist upgrade and broke my old xorg.conf dual head configuration. Here is my new one.
<a id="more"></a><a id="more-141"></a>
Using:
Debian Lenny (12.06.2008) - 2.6.23
{% snippet c %}
ii  xserver-xorg                         1:7.3+10                        the X.Org X server
ii  xserver-xorg-core                  2:1.4.1~git20080517-1    Xorg X server - core server
ii  xserver-xorg-video-i810          2:2.3.1-1                       X.Org X server -- Intel i8xx, i9xx display d
ii  xserver-xorg-video-intel          2:2.3.1-1                       X.Org X server -- Intel i8xx, i9xx display d
{% endsnippet %}

Here is the xorg.conf that i used.<a href='/downloads/xorg/xorgconf.dualheadi810'>xorgconf</a>
{% snippet c %}
Section "Files"
	FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/misc:unscaled"
	FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/Type1"
	FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/TTF"
	FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/corefonts"
	FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/freefonts"
	FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/terminus"
	FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/ttf-bitstream-vera"
	FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/unifont"
	FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/75dpi:unscaled"
	FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/100dpi:unscaled"
	FontPath    "/usr/share/fonts/artwiz" 
EndSection

Section "Module"
        Load "i2c"
        Load "bitmap"
        Load "ddc"
        Load "dri"
        Load "extmod"
        #Load "freetype"
        Load "glx"
        Load "int10"
        Load "vbe" 
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Generic Keyboard"
        Driver          "kbd"
        Option          "CoreKeyboard"
        Option          "XkbRules"      "xorg"
        Option          "XkbModel"      "pc105"
        Option          "XkbLayout"     "de"
	Option          "XkbVariant"    "nodeadkeys"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Configured Mouse"
        Driver          "evdev"
        #Option          "Name" "Logitech USB-PS/2 Optical Mouse"
	#Option          "CorePointer"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/input/mice"
        Option          "Protocol"              "ImPS/2"
        Option          "Emulate3Buttons"       "true"
EndSection

Section "InputDevice"
        Identifier      "Synaptics Touchpad"
        Driver          "synaptics"
        Option          "SendCoreEvents"        "true"
        Option          "Device"                "/dev/psaux"
        #This is useful to let gsynaptics change the behaviour of the touchpad (eg. disable tapping)
        Option          "SHMConfig"             "true"
        Option          "Protocol"              "auto-dev"
        Option          "HorizScrollDelta"      "0"
EndSection

Section "Device"
        Identifier      "Intel 945GM"
        # Both drivers worked for me.
        #Driver          "intel"
	Driver 		"i810"
        # Identify the different Monitors for your Device (Important part for dual head!)
        Option  "Monitor-TMDS-1"        "TMDS Monitor"
        Option  "Monitor-LVDS"          "LVDS Monitor"
EndSection

# LVDS is the laptop display
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "LVDS Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        Option  "LeftOf" "TMDS Monitor"
        Option "PreferredMode" "1280x800"
        Option "Position" "1280 0"
EndSection

# TMDS is the device connected to the VGA port
Section "Monitor"
        Identifier      "TMDS Monitor"
        Option          "DPMS"
        #HorizSync      65-70
        #VertRefresh    59-60
        HorizSync 64-83
        VertRefresh 56-75
        Option  "PreferredMode" "1280x1024"
EndSection

# Define the virtual screen
Section "Screen"
        Identifier      "The Screen"
        Device          "Intel 945GM"
        SubSection "Display"
                Virtual 2560 1024
        EndSubsection
EndSection

Section "ServerLayout"
        Identifier      "Default Layout"
        Screen          "The Screen"
        InputDevice     "Generic Keyboard"
        InputDevice     "Configured Mouse"
        InputDevice     "Synaptics Touchpad"
EndSection
{% endsnippet %}

After you start your xserver you might encounter another problem. My external display supports a larger resolution than my laptop display. To set the external display to the desired resolution you can use xrandr. As soon as i know how to automatically workaround this issue i will do a post.

Set external display to highest resolution 
{% snippet c %}
xrandr --output VGA --mode "1280x1024"
{% endsnippet %}

If you get very large windows and texts you might find this command useful:
{% snippet c %}
startx -- -dpi 96
{% endsnippet %}
