---
layout: post
title: Resizing raid5 with mdadm, lvm and luks for encryption on debian wheezy
date: 2014-02-09 15:31:26 +00:00
tags: 
- debian
- mdadm
- luks
- cryptsetup
- lvm
---

This guide will show you how to setup a simple mdadm, lvm test environment in which you can experiment with changes you want to execute on a real disk system. 

h2. Setup the test environment

You can of course use your own disks. In my case i did a trial run of the needed steps by using losetup to map a data file to a loop device.

{% snippet c %}
  dd if=/dev/zero of=diska bs=1M count=300
  dd if=/dev/zero of=diskb bs=1M count=300
  dd if=/dev/zero of=diskc bs=1M count=300
  dd if=/dev/zero of=diskd bs=1M count=300
  losetup /dev/loop0 diska
  losetup /dev/loop1 diskb
  losetup /dev/loop2 diskc
  losetup /dev/loop3 diskd

  # Create raid 5 with one disk missing
  mdadm -Cv /dev/md2 -l5 -n3 /dev/loop0 /dev/loop1 missing

  # Add luks cryptolayer ontop
  cryptsetup luksFormat /dev/md2
  cryptsetup luksOpen /dev/md2 cryptotest

  # Add lvm structure 
  pvcreate /dev/mapper/cryptotest
  vgcreate testvg /dev/mapper/cryptotest
  lvcreate -l 100%FREE -n testlv testvg

  # Create filesystem
  mkfs.ext3  /dev/mapper/testvg-testlv
  mount /dev/mapper/testvg-testlv test/
{% endsnippet %}

You can now copy your data onto the raid 5 and when done add the missing disk to the final raid. You can of course use three disks from the start. 

h2. Add missing disk to the raid 5

{% snippet c %}
  # Add missing device
  mdadm --add /dev/md2 /dev/loop2
{% endsnippet %}


h2. Growing the raid 5 by adding a forth disk

Once your data has been copied you may want to add the now free disk to the raid of md2.

{% snippet c %}
  # Add disk and resize md2
  mdadm --add /dev/md2 /dev/loop3
  mdadm --grow --raid-devices=4 /dev/md2

  # Check the sync process and the final result
  cat /proc/mdstat
  mdadm --detail /dev/md2
  umount /tmp/test/test

  # Resize the crypt layer and check the result
  cryptsetup resize cryptotest
  fdisk -l /dev/mapper/cryptotest

  # Resize physical volume and check the result
  pvresize /dev/mapper/cryptotest 
  pvdisplay

  # Resize logical volume and check result
  lvextend -l +100%FREE /dev/mapper/testvg-testlv
  lvdisplay 

  # Resize filesystem
  e2fsck -f /dev/mapper/testvg-testlv
  resize2fs /dev/mapper/testvg-testlv
  mount /dev/mapper/testvg-testlv test
{% endsnippet %}

h2. Cleanup of the test environment

Of course you should not do these steps on the real raid. These steps are just needed when you want to cleanup your testenvironment.

{% snippet c %}
  umount /tmp/test/test
  lvremove testvg testlv
  vgremove testvg
  pvremove  /dev/mapper/cryptotest 
  cryptsetup close /dev/mapper/cryptotest 
  mdadm --manage /dev/md2 --stop
  losetup -d /dev/loop0
  losetup -d /dev/loop1
  losetup -d /dev/loop2
  losetup -d /dev/loop3
{% endsnippet %}